# Reproducibly Developing Species and Gear Code Reference Books {gap_code_books} <a href={https://afsc-gap-products.github.io/gap_code_books}><img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/75965120/194981561-345f5828-3658-4ad6-9205-d51879dae8b7.png" align="right" width=139 height=139 alt="NOAA Fisheries report" />

> Code is always in development. Please refer to releases for final products. 

## This code is primarally maintained by:

**Chris Anderson** (Christopher.Anderson AT noaa.gov; @CAnderson763)

**Emily Markowitz** (Emily.Markowitz AT noaa.gov; @EmilyMarkowitz-NOAA)

**Liz Dawson** (Nancy.Roberson AT noaa.gov; @NancyRoberson)

Alaska Fisheries Science Center,

National Marine Fisheries Service,

National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration,

Seattle, WA 98195

### Description

The [Species Code book](https://www.fisheries.noaa.gov/resource/document/groundfish-survey-species-code-manual-and-data-codes-manual) is a listing of codes used for fish and invertebrates identified in RACE division surveys. It is not a comprehensive list of all taxa potentially available to the surveys nor a hierarchical taxonomic key. It is a linear listing of codes applied to individual catch records. Specifically, a code assigned to a genus or higher refers to animals identified only to that level. It does not include animals identified to lower levels listed under other codes. An individual specimen is only represented once by any one code.

The Code listing is periodically reviewed by RACE staff to ensure its accuracy and standardization. Names used are those established by general usage in the scientific community, using the following published resources: Names of Fish (AFS, 2004), Names of Decapod Crustaceans (AFS, 1989), Names of Mollusks (AFS, 1988, 1998), Names of Cnidaria and Ctenophora (AFS, 1991), and the most recent [Integrated Taxonomic Information System (ITIS) database](https://www.itis.gov/) and [World Register of Marine Species database](http://www.marinespecies.org/). Names used in this Code list may differ on the basis of the most recent research. No subspecies will be included in the Species Code List.   

## NOAA README

This repository is a scientific product and is not official
communication of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, or
the United States Department of Commerce. All NOAA GitHub project code
is provided on an ‘as is’ basis and the user assumes responsibility for
its use. Any claims against the Department of Commerce or Department of
Commerce bureaus stemming from the use of this GitHub project will be
governed by all applicable Federal law. Any reference to specific
commercial products, processes, or services by service mark, trademark,
manufacturer, or otherwise, does not constitute or imply their
endorsement, recommendation or favoring by the Department of Commerce.
The Department of Commerce seal and logo, or the seal and logo of a DOC
bureau, shall not be used in any manner to imply endorsement of any
commercial product or activity by DOC or the United States Government.

## License

Software code created by U.S. Government employees is not subject to
copyright in the United States (17 U.S.C. §105). The United
States/Department of Commerce reserve all rights to seek and obtain
copyright protection in countries other than the United States for
Software authored in its entirety by the Department of Commerce. To this
end, the Department of Commerce hereby grants to Recipient a
royalty-free, nonexclusive license to use, copy, and create derivative
works of the Software outside of the United States.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nmfs-general-modeling-tools/nmfspalette/main/man/figures/noaa-fisheries-rgb-2line-horizontal-small.png" height="75" alt="NOAA Fisheries">

[U.S. Department of Commerce](https://www.commerce.gov/) | [National
Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration](https://www.noaa.gov) |
[NOAA Fisheries](https://www.fisheries.noaa.gov/)
